# About Push Protocol

Push is a web3 native communication network, enabling cross-chain notifications, messaging, and more for apps, wallets, and services.

- Pros
  - Cross chain communication will help a lot dapss scale and improve UX'
  - Community grovereance 
  - Immediate communication 
  - Security alerts 
  - Censosrhip resistant
  - It enables any dApps, smart contracts, backends, or protocols to communicate both on-chain and off-chain via user wallet addresses in an open, gasless, multichain, and platform-agnostic fashion.
  - Supply chain management: Push protocol can be used to push real-time updates on the status of goods in a supply chain. This can help companies track the movement of goods and identify any potential delays or issues.
  - One of the main strength of the push protocol is the growth of the Protocol . Push has grown tremendously in 2023, we saw an increase in notifications sent (+50 Million YTD) and subscribers (154k). Our ecosystem expanded as more protocols started using Push to send notifications / chat to their users across chains. Push is now live on 5 chains including Ethereum, Polygon zKEVM, PoS, Arbitrum and BNB.
- Area of the improvement 
   - Web3 wallets are great, but they struggle with one big issue: Spam messages with the risk of getting scammed .
   - Open frame need huge amount of improvement .

- Overall response to Push Protocol 
 The push protocol is an essential component of modern real-time communication systems, offering numerous benefits in terms of user experience, efficiency, and scalability. While there are challenges to be addressed, particularly around connection management, security, and resource consumption, the advantages make it a valuable tool for a wide range of applications. Implementing push protocols effectively requires a thorough understanding of the specific use case requirements and careful consideration of the associated challenges .

