# Process (Ps)
- Process are the programm that are running on your machine. They are managed by the kernal and each process has the ID associated with it called process ID (PID). 
- `ps` is the command which will list the following things 
   - `PID` Process ID 
   - `TTY` Controlling terminal with the process 
   - `STAT` Process status code 
   - `CMD` Name of executable/command
   - `VSZ` Virtual  memory usuage of the entire process 
   - `RSS` Resident set size,the non swapped physical memory 
   - `ps a`  A display all running process including the one being ran by other users .
   - `ps au` U shows more details about the user 
   - `ps aux` X list all the process that dont have tty .
 - A very sucess ful command to get the real time info is the `top` which list the real time info .
 - `TTY` is the terminal that executed the command .
 - There are the two types of the terminal 
   - Regular terminal device 
   - Pseudoterminal device 
- A process is the running programm but in nitty and gityy it is the system allocating CPU and I/O to make the programm run. It is the instance of a running program.
- The kernal is in charge of process ,when we run the program the kernal loads up the code of the program in the memory
 determines and allocated resources and then keep tabs on each process. It knows tha status of the process resourcess of the process is using and receives . The process owner and signal handling and everything .
- It is the job of the kernal to make sure each process get the right amount of the resource .WHen the process end the resources it usesd are noe freed up for other process .
- When the new process is created an exiting process basically clone itself using something called the fork system call. The fork system call creates a mostly identical child process,this child process takes on a new process ID and the original process id becomes the parent process and has something called a parent process ID `PPID` .
- INIT is the mother of all process with the root access and PID is 1 by default .

- When the parents dies then child process is given under the init as it eventually perform the wait systemcall for these orphans so they can die .
- When the child process terminates but the parents process hasn't call wait yet. then kernal assign the child oricess as the zombie process .
# Signal 
- A signal is a notification to a process that something has happend 
- They are basically ways process can communicate .
- When a signal is generated by some event it is then delivered to a process it is considered in a pending state until it is delivered .
- Kill is the command which is used to send the signal to stop the process .
  - `kill pid`
  When you run multiple things on your computer, like perhaps Chrome, Microsoft Word, or Photoshop at the same time, it may seem like these processes are running simultaneously, but that isn't quite true.

- Processes use the CPU for a small amount of time called a time slice. Then they pause for milliseconds, and another process gets a little time slice. By default, process scheduling happens in this round-robin fashion. Every process gets enough time slices until it's finished processing. The kernel handles all of these process switches, and it does a pretty good job most of the time.

- Processes aren't able to decide when and how long they get CPU time. If all processes behaved normally, they would each (roughly) get an equal amount of CPU time. However, there is a way to influence the kernel's process scheduling algorithm with a nice value. Niceness is a pretty weird name, but what it means is that processes have a number to determine their priority for the CPU. A high number means the process is "nice" and has a lower priority for the CPU, and a low or negative number means the process is not very "nice" and it wants to get as much of the CPU as possible.
- Everything in the linux is file 
- Even process is the file and it is stored in the a special file knows as the /proc filesystem 
- `ls /proc` here you will see the sub dir of the pid and if u looked into pid in the ps you will see the details .
- 
